# Rescue

A `rescue` is our top level data object that encapsulates the complete journey of food being donated, received, moved, and redistributed. A rescue will contain multiple `stops`, respectively broken into `pickups` and `deliveries`, and be connected to a "handler" - the user profile completing the rescue.

<br>

# Stop

A **stop** is the movement of food from an organization to Sharing Excess, or vice versa. A stop will have one of two types: `pickup` or `delivery`. A stop contains the categorized weight of the food moved. Multiple `stops` will be combined to make a `rescue`, and their collective weight should always balance to 0 (food in = food out).

<br>

> ### Pickup
>
> A `pickup` is a specific type of `stop`, in which food is donated from a `donor` and "collected" by a Sharing Excess community member. A `pickup` will be attached to a `donor` organization and a specific `location` of that organization, making it easy to measure who and where the food came from.

<br>

> ### Delivery
>
> A `delivery` is a specific type of `stop`, in which food is distributed from a a Sharing Excess community member to a `recipient` organization. A `delivery` will be attached to a `recipient` organization and a specific `location` of that organization, making it easy to measure who and where the food is going.

<br>

# Organization

An `organization` is the umbrella term encompassing all of our partners - `donors` and `recipients`. An organization will also have one or more attached `locations`, denoting specific address where food is collected or distributed. Every `stop` will be associated with an `organization` and a `location`, providing a way to track all food moving in and out.

<br>

> ### Donor
>
> A `donor` is a specific type of `organization` that donates food. These are broken out into further subtypes, including retail, wholesale, and others.

<br>

> ### Recipient
>
> A `recipient` is a specific type of `organization` that receives food donations. These are broken out into further subgroups such as food bank, agency, popup, community fridge, compost, holding, home delivery, and others.

<br>

# Location

A `location` is a physical address connected to an `organization`. There may be one or more `locations` linked to an `organization`. Location's contain the component parts of a legal address, map data, and contact information.

<br>

# Community

A `community` is a group of Sharing Excess members working together to rescue food from partner `organizations` in their area. A community will be managed by a specific `profile`, and can also manage one or more partner organization `locations`, showing that they are responsible for collecting and distributing food to that location.

<br>

# Public Profile

A `public_profile` is a user of the Sharing Excess food rescue platform. They can be attached to many other data objects, including rescues, transfers, and communities.

<br>

> ### Private Profile
>
> A `private_profile` is an extension of a profile record containing private legal information for a member who drives a vehicle on behalf of Sharing Excess. This includes license and insurance information, and made accessible **only** to the individual member.
